2022.10.0 (#24388)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_posts/2022-10-05-release-202210.markdown

{% endcomment %}

## Marcel van der Veldt joins Nabu Casa

We are excited to announce that [Marcel van der Veldt](https://github.com/marcelveldt)
has joined [Nabu Casa](https://www.nabucasa.com/)!

Marcel is known for his contributions to the [Z-Wave integration](/integrations/zwave_js),
the rewrite of the [Hue integration](/integrations/hue), the
[Music Assistant custom integration](https://github.com/music-assistant/hass-music-assistant),
and many more!

Marcel is going to be working on [Matter](https://csa-iot.org/all-solutions/matter/)
support in Home Assistant. Just in case you missed it, Matter [is now officially
available/released](https://twitter.com/balloob/status/1576421490106384385) 🎉.

Welcome aboard Marcel!

## Active Bluetooth everywhere

Two releases back, we [introduced the Bluetooth integration](/blog/2022/08/03/release-20228/#first-class-bluetooth-support).
The previous release we brought Bluetooth everywhere in your home by adding
support for [Bluetooth Proxies](/blog/2022/09/07/release-20229/#bluetooth-everywhere).
Let's not stop there!

In this release, those proxies now support active Bluetooth connections! 🤯

> To explain this quick: Previously, we could listen for Bluetooth devices

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To explain this quickly: Previously, we could listen for Bluetooth devices
```

and only receive data via the proxies (passive connection); now, we can actively
set up a conversation with those devices and send data (active connection). This
adds the capability to extend the range of Bluetooth devices that can be
controlled 💙.

<img class="no-shadow" src='/images/blog/2022-09/bluetooth-proxy-overview.png' alt='Picture of a home showing how Bluetooth data is proxied via ESPHome devices to Home Assistant'><br>

For this occasion, ESPHome will have an additional release, which adds this
functionality. We have also updated our [Bluetooth proxy installer website](https://esphome.github.io/bluetooth-proxies/)
to install with support for active connections.

> So, want to control that SwitchBot Bluetooth device on the other end of your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So, you want to control that SwitchBot Bluetooth device on the other end of your
```

home that seems out of reach? Now you can by installing a proxy on
a simple ESP32 device.

Oh! Bonus: the Bluetooth performance has been improved too! Especially local
Bluetooth adapters should be quite a bit faster. 🚀

## Support for iBeacons

This release also adds support for iBeacons. These are Bluetooth-enabled devices
that send out identifiers to announce their location. Home Assistant can
now pick those up and show an approximate distance to such an iBeacon.

iBeacons can open up a lot of awesome use cases for automations. For example,
you could attach an iBeacon to your car, so you'll know the car is at home. Or,

> on the trashcan and use it to determine if the garbage is still sitting in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on the trash can and use it to determine if the garbage is still sitting in the
```

garage on pick-up day and send out a notification.

[Read more about iBeacons in our documentation](/integrations/ibeacon).

## Finding the right integration

Recently we [introduced "Supported brands"](/blog/2022/08/03/release-20228/#finding-the-integration-supporting-your-device),
allowing you to find integrations available under different brandings.
Now, we are taking it a step further streamlining the experience of adding new
devices or services.

For some brands of devices, we have multiple integrations available.
For example, we have a lot of "Google" integrations. Some brands provide devices
that can work via Zigbee or their matching hub, meaning you'd have a choice

> in integrating their hub or using it directly via Zigbee

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of integrating their hub or using the devices directly via Zigbee
```

(e.g., using [ZHA](/integrations/zha)).

To make it more clear on the choices available, you can now categorize
integrations by brand. Home Assistant will show the options available
for that specific brand. For example, the "Google" brand:

> <img class="no-shadow" src='/images/blog/2022-10/add-integration.png' alt='Screenshots showing adding an integration by the Google brands. Once you select Google, you will be offererd all Google integrations'><br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<img class="no-shadow" src='/images/blog/2022-10/add-integration.png' alt='Screenshots showing adding an integration by the Google brands. Once you select Google, you will be offered all Google integrations'><br>
```

This way, you no longer have to "find out" how your device could be integrated.
We now show if an integration uses "the cloud" or not, so you are aware upfront.

We often get questions about YAML-only integrations that cannot be found in the
user interface. While we love them to be available via the UI, we can
understand not finding them at all can be confusing.

To help with that, we now show **all** integrations when adding a new
integration, including those only available via YAML. While they cannot be
set up via the user interface, we now do provide links to the documentation
with the instructions on how to set it up.

## Subviews for dashboards

> This might be one of the coolest and most impractful features that has been

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This might be one of the coolest and most impactful features that has been
```

on a mobile or tablet device.

## All dialogs restyled

All dialogs that are shown in the Home Assistant have been slightly updated.

Most notably: The dialogs are now rounder on the edges, and the action buttons
have been styled and named more consistently. It brings Home Assistant closer
to version 3 of the Material Design that Home Assistant follows.

<img class="no-shadow" src='/images/blog/2022-10/new-dialogs.png' alt='Screenshot showing one of the restyled dialogs.'><br>

## Viewing YAML automations in the automation editor

In the last release, we revamped our automation editor, and we are very
happy to read how many of you loved these changes ❤️

However, if you manage your automations manually in YAML, you'd always be
served an error message when trying to open an automation in the UI. Not very
helpful, right?

This has been improved! You can now open **any** automation (or script) in the
UI. This lets you view your automation, providing a quick glance at its
workings.

<img class="no-shadow" src='/images/blog/2022-10/yaml-automation-editor.png' alt='Screenshot showing an YAML automation as read-only in the automation editor.'><br>

> Besides, as an bonus, if you have considered moving your automation to the UI,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Besides, as a bonus, if you have considered moving your automation to the UI,
```

{% endraw %}

`version()` can be helpful when building automations or Blueprints for
[update](/integrations/update) entities. You could, for example, easier
decide to automatically upgrade or send more detailed notification messages
in case a patch version is available.

## Google Sheets

This release introduces a new way to export data from Home Assistant:
**[Google Sheets]**.

With this integration, you can add new rows to a Google Sheet document
from a service call, allowing you to export data from automations for
further processing, visualization, or insights.

<p class='img'>
<img class="no-shadow" src='/images/blog/2022-10/google-sheets.png' alt='Screenshots exporting energy data to Google Sheets from Home Assistant'>
Export anything you like to a sheet in Google Sheets, like your energy usage.
</p>

Maybe you like to export your daily energy usage or keep track of the number
of diapers you have used in your baby feeding diary spreadsheet.

The possibilities with this are endless.

[Google Sheets]: /integrations/google_sheets

## Other noteworthy changes

There is much more juice in this release; here are some of the other
noteworthy changes this release:

> - The long-term statics card now use in the unit you have selected a sensor to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The long-term statics card now uses the unit you have selected a sensor to
```

  be in. So, if you've changed the sensor, it will now match! Also, more sensors
  are now able to change/convert units. Thanks, [@emontnemery] and [@epenet]!

> - When removing integrations that use application credentials, we will now

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- When removing integrations that use application credentials, we will now ask
```

  if you want to clean up those credentials. Nice touch, [@allenporter]!
- The [Netatmo] integration got lots of love! It now supports the Netatmo
  Doorbell, modulating thermostats and now also supports devices from Legrand,
  Bubendorff, BTicino and Smarther! Thank you [@cgtobi]!
- If you have a Prusa printer, you can now use the [PrusaLink] integration
  control your print job using the new job control buttons available!
  Thanks, [@balloob]!
- [BTHome] now supports binary sensors! Thanks, [@Ernst79]!
- The [HomeKit Controller] now supports [Thread] transport. Thanks, [@roysjosh]
  and [@Jc2k]!
- [forked-daapd] (OwnTone) now supports the media browser and can leverage
  the Spotify integration. Thanks, [@uvjustin]!

> - The [Min/Max] helper now supports calculating the statisical range. For

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The [Min/Max] helper now supports calculating the statistical range. For
```

  example, helpful if you want to show the difference between the coolest and

>   warmed rooms. Thanks, [@jsherman256]!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  warmest rooms. Thanks, [@jsherman256]!
```

- [DSMR Reader], done by [@Glodenox]
- [Radarr], done by [@tkdrob]

[@Glodenox]: https://github.com/Glodenox
[@tkdrob]: https://github.com/tkdrob
[DSMR Reader]: /integrations/dsmr_reader
[Radarr]: /integrations/radarr

## Need help? Join the community!

Home Assistant has a great community of users who are all more than willing
to help each other out. So, join us!

Our very active [Discord chat server](/join-chat) is an excellent place to be
at, and don't forget to join our amazing [forums](https://community.home-assistant.io/).

Found a bug or issue? Please report it in our [issue tracker](https://github.com/home-assistant/core/issues),
to get it fixed! Or, check [our help page](/help) for guidance for more
places you can go.

Are you more into email? [Sign-up for our Building the Open Home Newsletter](/newsletter)
to get the latest news about features, things happening in our community and
other news about building an Open Home; straight into your inbox.

## Breaking Changes

Below is a listing of the breaking change for this release, per subject or
integration. Click on one of those to read more about the breaking change
for that specific item.

{% details "Bayesian" %}

> The `prob_given_false` configuration variable is now a required as there

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `prob_given_false` configuration variable is now a required parameter as there
```

[developer blog][devblog]. The following are the most notable for this release:

[devblog]: https://developers.home-assistant.io/blog/

- [Bluetooth async_track_unavailable API changes](https://developers.home-assistant.io/blog/2022/09/16/bluetooth-unavailable-api-changes)
- [Calendar Data Model improvements and deprecations](https://developers.home-assistant.io/blog/2022/04/18/calendar-data-model/)
- [Deprecating media player constants](https://developers.home-assistant.io/blog/2022/09/06/media-player-repeat-mode-deprecation)
- [Deprecating unit conversion utilities](https://developers.home-assistant.io/blog/2022/09/28/deprecate-conversion-utilities/)
- [Long term statistics now tracks the source entity's unit](https://developers.home-assistant.io/blog/2022/09/29/statistics_refactoring)
- [New sensor device classes](https://developers.home-assistant.io/blog/2022/09/28/new_sensor_device_classes)
- [The issue registry has been moved to homeassistant.helpers](https://developers.home-assistant.io/blog/2022/08/25/issue_registry_moved_to_helpers)

## Farewell to the following

The following integrations are also no longer available as of this release:

> - **Ambee** as is became impossible to get API keys for private use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Ambee** as it became impossible to get API keys for private use.
```
